OK so now that we have our ability to store users let's actually create our sign up we'll go back to
our components and we will make our sign up component so let's just add the regular files like we always
do.
Sign Up Doc component Dutch ASX.
And sign up dot styles SAS.
We are importing react from react.
And we are going to import our form input because we need our form input and we also need our custom
button
and then we also need our off as well as our create user profile document
from firebase because we are creating and authenticating new users.
Now let's bring in our style sheet and create a state class because just like our sign and we need to
store what the user is typing into our form input.
So we're gonna have our component and we are going to do this dot state is equal to a display name of
empty string Email
and then confirm password
all of empty strings.
That's what the user is going to type in to those fields.
Now what we'll do is we will in our render render a div pops got a return and put this in the return
so we'll have our div that'll have our class name of sign up and inside will be an H H2 what the class
name of title and it will say I already or so.
I do not have a account and then our span will be sign up with your email and password and then we'll
have a form and just like our sign in form it's pretty much going to be very similar.
Right.
Class name.
Sign up form an hour on submit will be.
This function that we will call handle submit which we haven't written yet but we will later we need
form inputs and we're going to need four of them but for now for this first one it will be a type of
text because this will be the display name name display name value.
And then we got a D structure off those four values from our state
we need display in an email password and confirmed password so the value of passing will be display
name
on change will be a method handle change that we also need to write and then the label will be display
name and this will be required.
So we just need to duplicate this four times except the second type will be email because inputs have
their own email where they require you to have the at symbol in it in order for it to be a valid email
string.
This will be email.
This will also be email
and the second and third one will be password and they will automatically hide the actual text as the
user types in
and the same for this one so we'll call this confirm password
confirm password.
OK now if we are missing out.
So we gotta make sure that these form inputs are all closing properly
we need our final custom button
to be type some.
Because we just need to trigger the submit and then inside we will say sign up
and now that we have our component let's just export default sign up and let's write those functions.
Let's start with handles submit now handles submit will be an async function that gets the event and
what we will do is prevent the default submitting.
Right.
We want to prevent the default action of a form submit action.
And what we want to do here is we want to do almost the same thing we're doing with our app J.S. when
we had a google authentication action happen.
Right.
So similar to our app Jess except this time we are manually creating it.
So how does that work.
Well first we are going to check if password and the confirmed password don't match because if they
don't match then we don't want to proceed.
So we want to just alert that.
Passwords don't match let's just use a double quotes here
and then we will return from this whole function because we don't want to do anything else.
If their passwords don't match we want them to fix that then we are going to do a try catch block and
inside of our try we're gonna use a new off method that comes with that auth library.
And what we're gonna say is we're gonna get user write we're gonna destructor the user off the return
of the await for off dock create user with email and password.
So this one creates as we read right there in that little dropdown creates a new user account associated
with the specific email address and password.
Right.
Now once this is successful the user gets assigned to our application from the authentication and then
it gives us back a user auth object but that user off object is on the key user which is why we want
to do that D structure that way.
So create user with email and password and then we'll pass it the email and password that we have just
destruction off our state once we get that back we want to run our create user profile document method
with the user and the display name value which comes in as an object right where the name goes to the
value and then if there's an error we want a console error the error.
So if anything happens in that process whether it can't fetch it or it can't create it we want to throw
an error if this succeeds right then we want to reset our state.
So we're gonna wait for this to finish and when it does then we will run this dot set state and we want
to set our state equal to our initial state where everything is empty
and now after this we want to write our handle change and our handle change method is going to look
almost identical to our sign in one we are just going to d structure off of the event the name and the
value from the target and then we're just going to set state and dynamically set the name value to the
value value and this has to be an object
OK now that our sign up component is finished let's just apply the styles so what we'll do is very similar
to sign and we'll say display flex flex direction of column because we want all those elements vertically
aligned right and then we'll set the width to 380 pixels and then on the title we'll set a margin of
10 pixels top bottom and 0 pixels left and right and now let's bring our sign up component into our
sign in and sign up page.